hey everyone welcome back thanks for
fitting me in your schedule
laszlo montgomery here with another
china history podcast
number 259 if you will
i must admit lately the chp listener
requests for overseas chinese related
topics
have been more frequent than usual so i
decided to use the powers vested in me
as one of the biggest shareholders here
and preempt this week's regularly
scheduled topic
and by demand pulled this one out of
storage instead
in past chp episodes we've looked at
some of the history of overseas chinese
communities
dochus hokkien tyson as well as
a few of the immigrant experiences of
the chinese diaspora in the us
and mexico but we've never looked at the
history of overseas chinese country by
country
ethnic chinese are spread out all over
the world and like all the other
great and prosperous diasporas of the
world
with the overseas chinese their history
and circumstances varied from country to
country
on china's home continent of asia there
are a handful of places where
the stories and the sweep of the history
are more epic in scale than in other
places where chinese migration had such
a profound
impact on the economic political
and cultural development of those
countries i'm talking about the
southeast asian nations
members of asean and of these countries
i thought i might start with thailand
and the thai chinese
if you compare their stories to the
chinese who migrated to the philippines
singapore malaysia indonesia myanmar
cambodia and vietnam there are some
common threads that run unbroken through
all their histories but each one has its
own unique story you know the bare
minimum of china history was offered in
my
high school classes the most i had on
offer was like
uh one semester of general world history
with china covered in maybe
one or two weeks of classes that was it
and no ap
world history where i went either just
ap
us and european scorch cinco on both
today of course it's much different and
there's more chinese history offered in
american high schools now than in my day
language too but as far as southeast
asian history
forget it the only reason vietnam
even gets mentioned in american high
schools is because of the war
i'm sure there are places where this
history is taught but
uh it probably cost 60 grand a year for
tuition so here in the beautiful country
when it comes to the
histories of all the countries basically
from myanmar
east to the philippines not a
well-represented history in american
k-12 education
and certainly not when i was growing up
which was during the vietnam war
so although i was never taught any of
that history at least i
regularly heard or read the names of
every single one of these countries
to all people who live there or are
experts in this region
i beg your indulgence and how i
present this topic not everyone has had
the good fortune to live there
or has had that magnificent pleasure of
living in those beautiful nations and
learning about them up close
veteran podcaster charles kimball has
been doing the southeast asia history
podcast since
2016. almost 100 episodes plenty of thai
history on offer there that's a good
place to start if you're interested
i'll have a link in the show notes a lot
of the fine print
involving some of the names i'm
mentioning are all covered in a number
of mr kimball's episodes
we'll look at the history of the chinese
and many other countries between now
and the time i decide to
call it quits and live off the fat of my
chp royalties
but in this episode i thought ah what
the heck let's start with one country
who could make the claim
to have more ethnic chinese living
within their borders
than any other country except china it's
not an easy story to tell
because without a past study of thai
history
that could serve as a kind of baseline
that's hard to take it all in
but let's just wing it and i'm sure
we'll make out just fine
thai history like all histories except
ours of course it goes way back
it's all tangled up with the histories
of burma
the khmers vietnamese and lao oceans
and also just as important were a people
we don't hear too much about now
these were the mon people the mon mon
we're the most ancient people of burma
and thailand
today the hmong people are mostly found
in parts of
southeast myanmar they were one of the
original
austro-asiatic peoples to populate this
area
along with the khmers the mon
established a kingdom called hari punjai
mostly northern thailand it lasted until
the time of the mongols
the harepunchai kingdom was replaced in
the late 13th century
by the kingdom of la na who everyone in
chiang mai
probably heard of that was where the
lana rulers based their kingdom
good choice actually it was established
at lampoon just a little bit south of
chiang mai
the next major group of people to
migrate in the direction of siam
were from one of the major ethnic groups
of southwest china
these were the thai people tai
it's believed the most ancestral
homeland of these thai
people was around guangxi province about
a thousand years ago 11th century
they began to migrate into parts of
southeast asia
laos vietnam myanmar and thailand
the dai ethnic minority dai
is one of the more well-known folk of
southwest china
yin nan province they are among this
group who
speak this thai language again
t a i in mandarin this is the character
thai
like in taiwan there's northern central
and southwest
branches of this thai language family
i hope you don't mind if i keep
switching off between myanmar and burma
whenever we're talking about the past
history let's use burma
and reserve myanmar for everything else
same thing with siam
and thailand no insult or disrespect
intended
so these thai people originally from the
mountains of guangxi
when they got as far as modern-day
thailand they settled there
and mixed with the local mon married
assimilated
and what came about in central and
southern thailand were these
new people who spoke a language from
this crawdai
linguistic branch no one's 100
sure where the word for the thai people
came from
perhaps from the word sukhothai the name
of the first kingdom in those parts
as for the word siam let's thought this
came from the sanskrit word sayon
when the portuguese who we'll get to in
a minute when they came in the
16th century well they started using
this term siam
as a moniker for this land we'll get to
this later but prime minister plek fibon
songkram
aka fibon june 24th 1938 he said from
now on
our nations to be called thailand that's
when the switchover happened
then in 1944 came the novel anna and the
king of siam followed by the 1946 hit
movie with joe brenner
and the 1951 stage musical of the same
name
and americans were confused for decades
to follow
siam or thailand there's a whole lot to
say about the thai
tai people and their migration
throughout southeast asia
seeding these new communities around
those parts
and for the purposes of our story today
they played a rather
significant role in the early history of
today's great
modern thai kingdom i'm skirting the
history of thailand
the gravity is drawing me in but let's
just give the main
idea of the political situation
happening there as it related to the
earliest chinese
the last and final immigrant group who
you know like other ancient peoples
before them
migrated to this beautiful land
i guess a good place to begin our story
would be in the ayutia kingdom
1351-1767
they were the ones who welcomed admiral
changhu during his seven voyages between
1405 to 1433
three times his vessel sailed up the
chao praya the ayutya kingdom
that was concurrent with the last decade
of the yen the entire ming
and roughly the first 120 years of the
qing
so ayutia figures quite prominently in
our story
there are four principal kingdoms that
we'll mention the sukotai kingdom
1238 1438 and then running concurrent to
the sukkah tai for
87 years was the ayutthaya kingdom as i
said
1351-1767
they would later absorb the sukutai
kingdom into their state
and they were followed by the 15-year
tanbury kingdom
1767 17 essentially
the reign of one king who we'll look at
later in part two tuxen the great
and finally the chakri dynasty or
bangkok kingdom
of the present day they've been the
royal house
since 1782. one year before the usa
officially became a country
following the treaty of paris
well we know of the diasporas that
followed certain historical events in
china and
elsewhere but as far as the big bang
when the most brave and adventurous of
all dared to set sail for these parts
unknown
came during the 1200s and 1300s
the time of the mongol conquests and the
subsequent
pakhs mangolica back then the sukhothai
king had sent a number of tribute
missions to china
if you had a pugnacious antagonizer in
the region
it was to the chinese emperor that
lesser princes and kings went for
support
and for the longest time four political
entities
fought with each other incessantly for
the sukatai
they fought constantly with the
neighboring man and khmer
who also lived amidst this rich chao
praya basin
during the 13th century a first
noticeable wave of chinese took to the
seas
or came overland and these well mostly
unsung pioneers were the very first ones
to seed the cities that would grow
around
all the ports throughout nanyang as this
region was referred to the south ocean
this was the chinese word for this whole
southeast asian region and when the next
big
chinese wave of migration happened these
people were
already present in this case during the
sukhothai kingdom
these earliest chinese didn't go there
for a vacation
they were pioneers who went for trade
even though these times i just mentioned
were before the age of exploration in
the west
at least in these parts of the world
well it wasn't unheard of to board a
ship and
sail great distances the song dynasty
was a very
big age for shipbuilding and china's
first permanent navy was established in
out of necessity to fight the invading
churchin gene forces so by this time
chinese already knew how to build
seafaring vessels
and the idea of going on such an
adventure
wasn't such a big deal to some and these
earliest chinese voyagers who didn't
leave any records beyond
whatever shipwrecks were found went far
and wide sailing even beyond the andaman
sea
back then the straits of malacca was so
pirate infested
traders would sail into the gulf of
thailand come ashore with their boats on
the east coast
and portage across the skinniest part of
the peninsula and
load up their vessel on the west coast
well the next big milestone would be
1368.
the yurin dynasty fell and the ming
began their 276 year run
ayutia is a city located just north of
bangkok about an hour drive
at this moment in thai history bangkok
is still a
a minor place of no significance in 1370
fortune smiled on the ayutia king when
he was invited
to pay tribute to the new chinese ming
emperor who in this case was the founder
of the dynasty the
hongwoo emperor aka julian chang
why was this such a good thing for the
king of ayutia
well people back then knew what we know
in our day
that china was a great and powerful
nation and lesser nations were more than
willing to pay tribute to china
where there was so much trade potential
and the political legitimacy that you
know went with the deal
so the earliest thai chinese relations i
guess you could trace back to this time
when the hongwoo emperor instituted the
first
of several high gin orders or the
banning of
all private foreign trade the kangshi
emperor will do the same thing
but like it is with true love while
trade always finds a way
though the penalties were severe if he
got caught defying this royal ban
private trade still continued as long as
he didn't get caught
it was a very profitable enterprise
the ming emperor had sent an envoy to
ayutia
in 1370 where the king there was
formally recognized as the
legitimate government the sukhothai
kingdom
and was still around but again they were
already under the thumb
of the ayutthaya king government
sponsored and regulated two-way trade
became the main
conduit for commerce and this came in
the form of structured
tribute trade which was still very
worthwhile for the
loyal kingdoms and principalities who
came to bow before the emperor and
present gifts
they never walked away empty-handed and
then came the yongla
emperor 1403-1423 he's
famous for many things and one of them
for sure was his
personal backing of the voyages of
admiral changha
and the golden age of tribute trade that
these epic
voyages ushered in there's nothing in
the
official record that mentions jungkook's
personal visit
but it was suggested that mahwan also a
major figure in this great chinese fleet
did visit ayutia that would have been on
the
1413 expedition the fourth and into the
15th century
all these men who sailed with this fleet
and on these
enormous treasure ships they went back
to china with tales of
miracles and wonders of this incredible
land
nanyang southeast asia and all the
riches to be had there from
well commodities that were strongly in
demand in china
and freely available there and the siren
song
that in our time attracts so many people
from all over the world
well so it was in ming dynasty china and
if you
had innate entrepreneurial smarts and
feared not the challenges of getting to
these new destinations
or perhaps already had a friend or
fellow villager
already set up there there was no better
place in all the world
so in the wake of jungkook's voyages and
everything they opened up
there came more and more chinese
migrants
1412 was a banner year a chinese based
in ayutia became the first
siamese ambassador to china and became
very involved in all the tribute trade
missions
and this continued to fan the flames of
growing
chinese siam trade the hygiene
or sea ban was still in effect but
everyone knew
this wasn't going to last forever
remember it banned
private trade and prohibited chinese
from leaving china for other lands
so the chinese who were already present
in thailand prior to the ming
were perfectly positioned to be the
king's agents in carrying out these
tribute trading missions and assisting
the political relations with the chinese
state
a century later when alfonso to
albuquerque showed up in that part of
the world
well he depended on local chinese who
carried messages
to the king in ayutia at this time in
history the portuguese were on a roll
and eager to establish trading relations
with this kingdom
by the 1600s there was already a
well established chinatown in ayutia
chinese men came always men and because
of the dearth of chinese women to marry
in siam
well they did what came natural and took
local wives and
the famous assimilation stories that
thailand became so famous for
began to pick up steam back then a child
born of an ethnic chinese father
and a local thai mother was called a lok
chin
as opposed to a long crong for anyone
else of
mixed thai parentage sorry about that
pronunciation
in all throughout the 1600s and into the
1700s more chinese made their way to
thailand
and communities began to mature
throughout ayutia
all along the chao praya river and
besides ayutia
a sizable chinese community had sprung
up in ligor
in the south of thailand east coast
malay peninsula
this former kingdom today is located in
the city of nakhon si tamara
the europeans called this land the
kingdom of ligor
to the south of nakhon si tamara there
was another rather important city in the
history of the thai chinese called
patani
among this city's claims to fame was
that it was the later home of one of the
most notorious
chinese pirates during the most
notorious periods of piracy
in the south seas and though this
person's life is made up of a number of
legends that no one could prove or
disprove stories of his feats and
adventures were
faithfully passed down generation to
generation
and one of these stories purports that
it was this famous
16th century pirate lindau chen
after a long and violent life raiding
plundering and murdering people in cold
blood
well he settled down in pattani and
after being made persona non-grata at
every other port of call in asia
he turned that place into a dangerous
pirate lair in no time at all
in lindau chin or lim tokyo as he was
known in his native chow chow sorry
about that pronunciation again
this is where he settled down when he
hung up his pirate sword
and this pirate from jia yang or shantou
no one's really certain
it was said that it was this man
linda chen who sent out the call to his
hometown and from this time
began the massive wave of deochu
migration
to thailand today of the maybe
i don't know 15 million or so ethnic
chinese in thailand
more than half almost 60 percent
trace their ancestry back to the
surrounding villages
or cities of jiayang ciao
and shantou and just over the border
in this easternmost tip of guangdong
province was fujian
and these hokkien of zhangzhou and
xiamen
they too followed in the footsteps of
the dyochos
and today in thailand numbers-wise are
ranked
well a very distant fourth tied with the
cantonese
as far as today's population of ethnic
thai chinese
after the dyochos second place would be
the hakkas
followed by the hainanese and if you
gave
23andme ancestry test to the entire thai
population
well there's strands of chinese dna
far beyond the numbers who identify as
ethnic chinese thai
1567 the ayutia kingdom fell
don't worry it'll rise again but when
iutf fell
piracy again blossomed with no
central authority to push back against
their activities
the ming emperor long ching had repealed
the hygiene and once this happened
trade took off like gangbusters along
with you know the increased piracy
and more chinese emigration to thailand
among other destinations
the nemesis of the ayutia kingdom
were the burmese to the west they were
most persistent in their attempts to
destroy ayutya
they had defeated them in 1567 and what
was already the fourth
burmese siamese war since 1547.
had a mentionable bit of excitement
concerning the time when ayutia rose up
and
rebelled against their burmese overlords
just when the formidable 16th century
burmese army went in for the kill
a miracle happened a great burmese
warrior crown prince was
well if you believe the legend killed in
a duel to the death
riding atop elephants no less and in the
aftermath of this fight
the siamese king in 1592
emerged victorious killing this burmese
crown prince
other versions of the crown prince's
death claim other explanations of his
death
so following this incident the burmese
army quit the siamese campaign and went
home
but they'd be back with a vengeance
later for now
the ayutia kingdom caught a breather and
tried to pick themselves up off the
ground
and get back in the game one thing was
for sure as the 17th century dawned
southeast asian trade was becoming more
and more crowded
and developed and there were huge
demands for
all the exotica and woods that these
nanyang kingdoms had to offer
and the siamese demand for chinese goods
was as great as it was with the
europeans by the time the
westerners traveled to ayutia to explore
trade opportunities they found it
completely locked up and controlled by
the chinese
who in all fairness had you know a hell
of a head start
if the foreign traders wanted to do
business in ayutia
they had to deal with chinese middlemen
and they didn't like that but with so
much at stake the
europeans as well as the japanese fought
a very aggressive protracted battle with
the chinese to
muscle in on some of the action during
the 1600s the
dutch and the japanese were the leaders
of the pack of
foreign trading nations plying those
seas japan in particular was
playing for keeps in siam and set up
trade centers up and down the peninsula
by 1620 japan had become the largest and
most important trading partner for siam
you see by this time the ming dynasty
was almost but not quite
on its last legs and only had a couple
dozen years of
life left in them and as it happens well
going back to the death of chincher
huang in 210 bce
there's always a period of instability
in between the newly fallen
and newly established dynasties and with
china in chaos
it put a crimp on trading operations and
this was where
japan was able to step up and fill the
holes in the china goods supply chain
if chinese porcelain was too difficult
to obtain
well japan also made excellent porcelain
and silk products too
so in these decades of the early to mid
17th century
leading up to the dawn of the manchu
qing dynasty
japan became the siamese king's favorite
and most lucrative trading partner and
in what will become a rather
familiar tradition across southeast asia
during this
late ming dynasty period ending in 1644
the ayutthaya chinese will come to
dominate trade
shipping and manufacturing and they had
successfully insinuated themselves into
the good graces of the royal family to
the extent
that they enjoyed all kinds of
preferential treatment that was not
offered to the europeans the ethnic thai
lao man khmer and vietnamese
they paid taxes and fees that well the
chinese were given a pass on
but you know how it goes a crisis of
succession a political upheaval and
sometimes it's not a case of meet the
new boss same as the old boss
when king prasatong ascended the throne
in ayutia
he enacted a royal trade monopoly this
was in 1629.
well that put a damper on the extremely
cozy and profitable arrangement that the
ayutia chinese had enjoyed for all these
years
all the key commodities had to go
through the king
and he granted licenses to those who
would be allowed to carry out trade
in the king's name no more trading on
your own account which
was way more profitable it was goodbye
special privileges
like china 1949 not the end of the world
time and again over and over stuff
happens
the overseas chinese community adapted
you couldn't fight the king
this was the way it was and if what was
previously unregulated
now became regulated what else could one
do except go along with the royal
monopoly
king prasatong figured out right fast
this whole
trade thing was slightly more
complicated than it looked
no problem thought the king i'll just go
subcontract all the supply chain
logistics and negotiations to the
chinese
and it didn't stop there many of these
ayutia chinese in addition
to being invited in to assist the siam
royal monopoly
well many were also welcomed into the
civil bureaucracy to help manage the
economy
so these haiyutia chinese yeah they made
out okay
and they caught another nice break in
1632 when king prosatong
kicked all the japanese traders
out of his kingdom they had not
supported him in his power struggle so
the entire japanese colony of ayutia
faced a king
bent on retribution and this act puts
siam japan relations
on indefinite hold for a long time
if either country had commodities that
the other desired
trade only went through middleman from
now on
and the ayutia chinese traders were more
than happy to
step in and be those middlemen japan and
siam
no direct trade for the foreseeable
future
like the us and china 1950s and 60s
king prosatong only tolerated the
chinese
same with the dutch they still remained
in the game
and though the royal trade monopoly
remained in force
little by little private traders
started testing the waters and getting
back in the game
and then finally 1640s china is in one
of its periods of great chaos as one
dynasty
sinks below the waves and a new one
rises
and with no government around to police
the seas piracy made another
huge comeback and no place was safe from
all the horrors that
pirates famously inflicted on full
cities
towns and on individuals these are the
times of such legends as li
dan jung jir long and the sherbacher as
well as
zhang jier long's famous son zhang
better known in the west as kakshinga on
october 22nd
1633 jung gerlong's fleet had handed the
dutch east india company a terrible
defeat
the siege of modern day tainan on the
island of taiwan
this defeat knocked them out of the
competition for trade between
china and japan but soon afterwards the
kangshi
emperor will step into this sorry state
of affairs and
institute his horribly draconian hygiene
or
c ban of 1662-1681
and push back just enough to bring
piracy back
under control this c ban
called for everyone to burn their boats
and move inland
11 to 18 miles creating this no-man's
land where nothing could exist
and there was nothing convenient along
the coast anymore for pirates to plunder
and one more thing after the ming
dynasty fell
and the manchus took over as masters of
china well part of china
it would take time to control everything
but in the ensuing chaos of the manchu
takeover
a lot of chinese in fujian and guangdong
and other places as well well they got
the feeling that the good times were
over and once again there was another
wave of immigration to nanyang time and
again there was nothing like a social
upheaval to give people
the idea to look for greener pastures
elsewhere
the hakken tended to migrate to the
south of siam
in ligor or nakhon si tamare and the
ever growing population of dyochos
they clustered in chat and chantaburi
places that today are about a three and
a half hour car ride from bangkok
driving southeast so between the hygiene
sea ban and the social unrest at the
change of the dynasty in china
a lot of people in fujian and guangdong
jumped ship and to commercial port
cities of nanyang
most went and though zhang jier long
later went from pirate to ching
loyal bureaucrat his son coxing
kept on fighting till the very end and
as we all recall from past
chp episodes although the qing dynasty
officially
took over in 1644 it took them decades
to tamp down the last
of ming loyalist opposition it was the
same for the mongols back in the 13th
century with
southern song loyalists i mentioned
these song royals and loyalists
fled from mongol troops and they went
first to champa
in southern vietnam and later on to the
siam capital at ayutia
everyone had to take sides in this new
situation
you were either with the manchu ching
government now in control of most of
china
or you were with the ming loyalists in
jeong jing came to ayutia to pay a
formal visit
he was kakshinga's son the next
generation
and the king of siam at this time ruler
of the ayutia kingdom
this was the very long reigning and
historic
king naraya naraya the great the son of
king prasatong
he ruled from 1656 to 1688
concurrent with kangshi though not as
long lasting
king nerai kept a royal foot in two
boats
maintaining relations with the ming
loyalists as well as with the qing
court his priority was to grow trade
and grow it he did this period under
king naraya
saw the ayutia kingdom at its most
prosperous
kakshinga had kept the sea lanes open
and
safe for siam china tribute trade but at
a price of course
and this was to his insistence to
maintain a presence in ayutia
and the freedom to carry out trade and
commerce there the king of siam was able
to continue using
the fig leaf of tribute trade in order
to get around all the restrictions that
all other foreign nations had to put up
with when trying to carry out
china trade i mentioned how the dutch
traders in 1604 had muscled their way
into ayutia and competed head-to-head
with the local thai
chinese for the lucrative japan trade
well after king prosatong ejected the
japanese from the kingdom in 1632
the chinese of course were kind of
wishing to
have all of that business to themselves
and as the dutch will find out
time and again these ayuthiya chinese
will get in between the dutch
and their mission objective to dominate
trade between
siam and japan and after the dutch were
kicked out of their taiwan stronghold
and afterwards began getting harassed
and
defeated on the high seas by jung
gerlong's pirate fleet
the dutch east indies company the voc
they were really feeling the squeeze
they fought back hard and
refused to be pushed around by the local
chinese who were in cahoots with the
ayutia court
in response to the pressure the dutch
fleet blockaded the chao praya for five
months until this mini trade war was
resolved
in the first dutch siamese treaty of
1664.
well king nerai yeah he had to throw a
few chinese under the tuk-tuk so to
speak in order to appease the dutch
but the monarchy made out okay and
that's what mattered most
and the chinese business community had
to roll with the punches
and though profits might have taken a
hit they weren't complaining
so in the 1660s the dutch were back in
the driver's seat again with respect to
japan
trade from ayutia the dutch knew they
had the upper hand for now but their
chinese nemesis had them out gunned with
a
home field advantage and an unparalleled
network of relationships in every port
city and town between siam and southern
fujian province
and no sooner did king nerai get cozy
with the dutch
with his dreams of growing trade
he began to have a bad case of buyer's
remorse and started sending out feelers
to the
british and french to counter dutch
growing influence
king naraya had invited french catholic
missionaries into the kingdom and
allowed them
to attend their flock there and of
course drum up any new business they can
get
the english they had other pressing
engagements fighting the dutch and
weren't so responsive
to the king the ayutthaya chinese they
continued to do well but
had to take a backseat and allow the
french to enjoy their brief love affair
with siam
yeah the french they for a while
became the darlings of the siam court
and would enjoy
all this preferential treatment until
the
francophile king nerai passed in 1688
but prior to that in 1683 the jung
pirate family enterprise that had
controlled the china seas for so long
was
finally defeated and taiwan was united
with qing dynasty china
the next year kang shi with the jung's
out of the way at last
felt secure enough to rescind
the hygiene sea band and with everyone
once again
allowed to populate the coastal areas
well
this understandably had a huge impact on
the
proliferation of trade between china and
siam
allowing the ayutian chinese to enjoy
another
in a series of golden ages being
perfectly placed throughout
southeast asia to provide the engine
power
to restore china trade after a 28-year
ban
and as i said when king nerai met his
tragic end following the siamese
revolution of 1688
and the siege of bangkok one of his
advisors usurped the throne and declared
himself
king petracha one of the first things he
did
was to show the french the proverbial
door
they were expelled and quite brutally
too if i may add
and with the dutch and portuguese
already in retreat
that meant once again the ayutia chinese
had siamese trade all to themselves
and i think we'll pick up with king
petracha
next time in part two and we'll finish
up the
events that happen under the ayutia
kingdom we'll look at the first thai
king who is
part ethnic chinese with roots
stretching all the way to chow chow
toxin the great and we'll keep on going
until someone
cries out enough of this already qing
dynasty from here on out so we know
nanyang southeast asia is going to be
one of the main
centers of attention as we get closer
and closer
to the 19th century we'll focus on the
thailand aspect of that and the role of
the thai chinese
okay that's it time to close down for
the day this
is laszlo montgomery signing off from
los angeles california
home of the nba 2020 world champion
los angeles lakers lebron a.d
and company gold machine emen is all i
can say
sorry about those nuggets uh matt shien
shouldn't you be a warriors fan
all right me little beauties don't you
think about coming back in two weeks
time
same bat time same bat channel for
another exciting episode
of the china history podcast